Bradley R. Smith

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE
Senior Performance Analyst (November 2021 – Present)
Assistant Director of Sports Analytics (August 2016 – March 2018)
Nebraska Athletics Performance Lab, Lincoln, NE
• Baseball Performance Lead: Oversee research and reporting efforts across analytics and sport
science including workload monitoring, fatigue monitoring and biomechanics assessments.
Organize and lead performance team meetings, collaborating with athletic medicine, strength and
conditioning, sport psychology and nutrition.
• Technical Advisor: Performance team representative for Artificial Intelligence Task Force
vetting new technologies and developing plans for implementation.
Player Development Analyst (March 2018 – November 2021)
New York Yankees, Tampa, FL
• Staff Education/Development: Established and managed an online education platform servicing
the entire Baseball Operations (New York), Player Development (Tampa) and amateur and pro
scouting departments. Assisted directors and coordinators in developing and delivering course
content. Led initiative designed to evaluate coaching performance and align organizational
resources and philosophies to develop coaches at all levels.
• Player Evaluation: Utilized internal metrics and organizational philosophies to determine
industry value for players within our organization. Assisted in decision-making process regarding
free agency, rule 5 status, prospect rankings and roster construction.
• Player Development: Organized and led initial rollout of structured end-of-year meetings with
players across all levels (R-AAA). Provided objectives with metric focused messaging while
collaborating with coordinators, affiliate coaches and other support staff in developing off-season
training plans.
• Advance Scouting: Supported the efforts of the quantitative analysis and advance reporting
teams in preparing presentations and reports for major league coaching staff prior to each playoff
series. Spent 6 weeks at AA affiliate covering role of Advance Scouting Analyst preparing
material for use in advance meetings and in-game.
Instructor, (September 2017 – Present)
Northwestern University School of Professional Studies, Chicago, IL
Master of Science in Data Science Program
Research Assistant (August 2016 – March 2018)
Brain, Emotion and Education Lab
University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, NE
Assistant Baseball Coach (August 2011 – August 2016)
University of Nebraska Baseball, Lincoln, NE

EDUCATION
Ph.D. Psychological Studies in Education (Dec 2024) University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, NE
Specialization: Quantitative, Qualitative, and Psychometric Methods
Dissertation: “Examining the Use of Problem Transformation Methods in Multi-Target Regression”
M.S. Statistics (May 2013)
University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Lincoln, NE
M.S. Mathematics (May 2010)
Pittsburg State University, Pittsburg, KS
B.S. Mathematics (May 2006)
Pittsburg State University, Pittsburg, KS

TECHNOLOGY
Code: R, Python, SQL
Data Visualization: Tableau, PowerBI, Shiny
Sport Specific: Catapult, VALD, Hawk-Eye, Trackman, Rapsodo, Edgertronic, Yakertech, Blast Motion

